2013 was an historic year for
General Motors – a year in
which we advanced every part
of our long-term strategy for
profitable growth.
We strengthened GM’s fortress balance
sheet. We delivered solid earnings and
made a number of strategic investments
around the world. We also built on
our reputation for product excellence
and world-class quality, thanks to our
revitalized portfolio of highly regarded
new and refreshed vehicles.
In June, Standard & Poor’s restored GM
to the S&P 500, which opened the door
to new investors, including index mutual
fund holders and other investment
institutions. Then in September, Moody’s
Investors Service responded to our
progress by elevating GM to investment
grade. Finally, the U.S. Treasury sold
its remaining stake in the company
toward the end of the year, and we will
be forever grateful for the extraordinary
assistance we received.
These were all important milestones.
But just as important, our culture is
changing and the entire company is now
squarely focused on the customer: what
they want, what they need and what they
deserve when they buy a new GM car,
truck or crossover.
This discipline is transforming our
product design, quality and customer
care at a remarkable pace. It is also
guiding our response to the large safety
recalls announced in early 2014 that
involve the ignition switches in certain
GM vehicles no longer in production.
Rest assured that we are completely
focused on this issue at the highest
levels of the company and we
are working to exceed everyone’s
expectations for customer care,
responsiveness and transparency.
Our culture is changing and the entire
company is now squarely focused on the
customer: what they want, what they need
and what they deserve when they buy
a new GM car, truck or crossover.
Nothing is more important than the safety
of our customers, so we are also making
changes to ensure that something like
this does not happen again. One of our
first actions was to name a vice president
of Global Vehicle Safety to oversee the
safety development of GM vehicle systems
on a global basis, the confirmation and
validation of safety performance, and
post-sale safety activities such as recalls.
There will be more changes because we
are determined to emerge from this crisis
stronger and wiser so we can accelerate
the momentum we generated throughout
2013.
During the year, we delivered a record
9.7 million vehicles around the world and
more than $155 billion in revenue. We saw
record sales in China, the world’s largest
market; higher retail share in the United
States; and Opel/Vauxhall’s first market
share increase in Europe in 14 years.
Net income to common stockholders
was $3.8 billion, which is down from
2012 largely because of incremental tax
expense and the actions we took to make
the business stronger for the long term.
By contrast, our EBIT-adjusted – a figure
that tracks how the underlying business
is performing before interest, taxes and
special items – was a robust $8.6 billion.
That is up $700 million from 2012.
The largest contributors were our
operations in North America, where we
had record earnings, our China joint
ventures and GM Financial, which also
posted record results. South America was
profitable and Europe, which significantly
reduced its losses, remains on track to
achieve its mid-decade break-even target.
All of this translates into 16 consecutive
profitable quarters and almost $32 billion
of cumulative EBIT-adjusted since the
beginning of 2010. These results also
paved the way, in early 2014, for our
Board of Directors to declare a 30-cent per
share quarterly dividend on our common
stock – a first for today’s GM.
of What Could Be
Returning capital to common stockholders
through a dividend was meaningful
because it helps deliver on the promise of
GM’s historic 2010 initial public offering.
We went public as a smaller company
with far less debt and some very good
vehicles. However, a wide range of
issues had to be addressed so that the
company could better adapt to aggressive
global competition, rapid-fire advances
in technology and increasingly stringent
government regulations.
Working together, our team set out to
rebuild the company’s organizational
capability in corporate and consumer
finance, accounting, information
technology, risk management, research
and development, and more.
Every year since the IPO, we have made
significant progress and 2013 was no
exception. For example, we acquired Ally
Financial’s International Operations
in Europe and Latin America, and
we expect to acquire Ally Financial’s
China joint venture in 2014.
The year also saw the opening of a new
state-of-the-art information technology
data center and the start of construction
on a second mirrored and fully redundant
facility, as well as the retirement of several
billion dollars of high-cost preferred stock.
However, no amount of restructuring,
reorganization and investment would
matter much if we had not made the
customer our compass.
Our products best tell this story. Today,
GM products are taking on the best
vehicles in the world and winning – with
customers and critics alike. For example,
the new Cadillac ATS sedan, which was
named the 2013 North American Car
of the Year by a panel of distinguished
journalists, helped Cadillac become the
fastest-growing full-line luxury brand in
2013. Just 12 months later, Chevrolet
swept the group’s 2014 car and truck
awards with the Corvette Stingray and the
Silverado. About the same time, the new
Cadillac CTS was named the Motor Trend
Car of the Year.
The same story is playing out all over
the world. The revitalization of Opel/
Vauxhall is just one example. Opel won
more than three dozen awards for design,
performance, innovation and value in
2013, thanks in large measure to the
new ADAM and Mokka.
Compelling design played a part in
these success stories. So did value, and
advanced technology in areas like safety,
connectivity and fuel economy. However,
there is one attribute that can make or
break a brand, and that is quality.
Quality: Good Enough
Just Isn’t
For years, GM’s quality was competitive.
Today “good enough” just isn’t, and we
have made major strides because the
entire organization is now on the same
page. For example, back in 2011 we
aligned the compensation of salaried and
hourly employees in the United States
around profits and quality.
This provides a greater opportunity for
employees to share in the success of the
business. And getting our workforce fully
engaged was instrumental in helping us
earn eight Initial Quality Awards in the J.D.
Power 2013 Initial Quality Study*, which
was more than any other automaker.
We are proud of our progress, but it is
critical that we improve on these results
and then replicate them all over the world.
That is why we created the Global Quality
& Customer Experience team in 2013.
This group is helping us develop even
more robust product quality and durability
testing standards, and revamp how we
handle customer concerns to move faster
and get our designers and engineers
fully engaged.
Playing Offense
Everyone at GM knows that to get ahead
and stay ahead, we have to do more than
just get the fundamentals like quality
right. We have to play offense with great
products and exceptional value.
For example, in 2013 and early 2014,
we announced that GMC and Chevrolet
will reenter the mid-size pickup segment
in the United States by leveraging one of
our global truck architectures. This is a
segment that our domestic competitors
abandoned. But we think there are plenty
of customers ready for great-looking, very
capable and fuel-efficient designs. The
vehicles – the Chevrolet Colorado and
GMC Canyon – launch this fall.
Transforming Cadillac into a global luxury
brand is another priority. That’s why we
are simultaneously expanding our product
portfolio and building a dedicated plant
in Shanghai to serve the Chinese market,
which we believe will be the largest
luxury market in the world by the end
of the decade. We broke ground on this
facility in 2013, and it is one of several
investments that we expect will increase
our capacity in China to about 5 million
units within a few years.
Driving Innovation
Another thing all great companies do is
innovate, and GM is now doing a much
better job of stretching for breakthroughs
and creating significant positive change
for customers.
Our global connected car strategy is a
case in point. Our OnStar business was
a pioneer of the connected car, and it
turned three simple buttons – one for
calls, one for directions and one for
emergencies – into a very successful
business with close to 7 million
subscribers in the United States,
Canada, China and Mexico.
Now Opel is planning to introduce OnStar
across its passenger car range in selected
European markets beginning in 2015. In
addition, we are preparing to take OnStar
beyond safety and security to an entirely
new level of performance and redefine
what it means to be connected.
In early 2013, we announced the
automotive industry’s largest global
deployment of 4G LTE high-speed
mobile broadband. Our strategy will give
consumers around the world superior
smartphone integration, a built-in Wi-Fi
hotspot and a growing portfolio of apps that
can handle everything from scheduling
vehicle service appointments to booking
a hotel room.
The plan is for the OnStar 4G LTE rollout to
start this summer in the United States and
Canada on most 2015 models, and we
plan to expand availability to more brands,
vehicles and markets in coming years.
Every initiative I have shared so far has one
goal: to help GM grow profitably around
the world. The same holds true for the
difficult decisions we made in 2013, which
include actions that will end the sale of
mainstream Chevrolet products in Europe
after 2015, and stop the production of
vehicles at our Australian operations by the
end of 2017. These business units have
been generating losses for years because
of issues that include high production costs,
lack of scale and adverse currency shifts.
Going forward, we will continue to market
Holden-brand vehicles in Australia, and we
will focus on Opel and Vauxhall in Europe.
As hard as it is to pull back, acting now
will free up resources that we can invest
in other parts of the business where the
risk-reward equation is better.
Our ultimate goal is to see GM ranked
among the very best companies in the world.
Leading GM into the Future
One of the principal architects of GM’s
success is Dan Akerson, who stepped
down as chairman and CEO in January
2014 due to family reasons. Dan’s GM
career began on the eve of our historic
IPO, and it spanned some of the most
critical – and successful – years in the
company’s history.
I remember the day early in his tenure
when Dan said emphatically, “I am not
a car guy.” Many people didn’t know what
to make of his remark because they were
used to auto executives with gasoline
in their veins and nicknames like
“Engine Charlie.”
However, history will show that Dan was
the quintessential car guy because he
drove us to refocus our entire organization
around the customer, saying that is what
the world’s most successful companies
do. At the same time, he changed how
we operate by challenging the status quo
in every area and promoting or recruiting
change agents who helped us learn that
past practice isn’t always best practice.
Under Dan’s leadership, the GM Board of
Directors has become one of the strongest
boards in corporate America. We’ve added
a number of respected directors, including
Tim Solso, the retired chairman and CEO
of Cummins Inc., who is now GM’s
non-executive chairman. Tim is widely
considered to be one of the world’s
best corporate leaders.
At Cummins, he preached profitable
growth, he championed innovation and
the company delivered exceptional returns
to stockholders in the process. His counsel
is going to be invaluable.
To be sure, we still have our share of
internal and external challenges. But we
know what they are and we are facing
them down one after another. That’s
why there will be no right or left turns
by today’s leadership team.
In the years ahead, you can expect
continued investment by GM in compelling
design, innovation and an exceptional
ownership experience. Simultaneously,
we will continue our work to reduce
internal complexity, especially in product
development, drive down material and
logistics costs, and fix or exit businesses
that are not profitable.
We know that winning in each of these
areas – not just making progress – is
the best path to leadership and reaching
our ultimate goal, which is to see GM
ranked among the very best companies
in the world.
Respectfully,
