Ford Motor Company completed one
of its best years ever in 2013.
Led by record profits in North America and Asia Pacific Africa,
we achieved our fifth year in a row of positive net income.
We are now rated investment grade by four of the major
credit rating agencies.
Our strong performance enabled us to double the quarterly
dividend in 2013, and subsequently raise it by 25 percent in
the first quarter of 2014.
After achieving one of our best years, we are now
embarked on one of our most ambitious years, building
a strong foundation for future growth and profitability.
In 2014 we plan to go further by launching the most vehicles
worldwide in a single year in our history. Included in these
launches will be all-new versions of two iconic Ford vehicles,
Mustang and F-150.
Celebrating its 50th anniversary this year, Mustang will be
available for the first time in key markets in Europe and Asia.
The all-new F-150, part of Americas best-selling F-Series
lineup, is the toughest, smartest and most capable F-150
ever setting the standard for the future of trucks.
To support these product launches we are continuing with
our largest manufacturing expansion in the last 50 years.
We will increase capacity or add production in six of our
U.S. assembly plants, and are opening two new plants in
Asia, one in South America and one in Europe.
Our focus continues to be on producing vehicles that are
best-in-class in quality, environmental impact, safety and
innovative technology. The record number of new vehicles we
will introduce this year supports our goals of increased global
sales and market share, as well as our ongoing commitment
to reducing the environmental impact of our vehicles.
Our environmental commitment included the sale of more
than 85,000 hybrid, plug-in hybrid and all-electric vehicles
in the United States in 2013, the first full year all six of our
electrified vehicles were available. That represented a sales
increase of nearly 150 percent from the prior year.
We also introduced a Ford Fusion Hybrid automated research
vehicle with the University of Michigan and State Farm to
study autonomous driving and other advanced technologies.
This vehicle builds on a decade of automated driving research
at Ford and represents a vital step toward our vision for the
future of mobility. We are a leader in wireless automotive
communication technology, which will make driving safer,
ease traffic congestion and sustain the environment.
Our employees around the world are working together to
meet the needs of our customers and the issues confronting
our world. We have completed one of the most profitable and
successful years in our history, and are building a foundation
for even greater success in the future. We have a strong
leadership team, a great plan and growing momentum.
I look forward to progress and profitability for all.
Thank you for your continued support of our efforts.

One team. One plan. One goal.
Our One Ford plan continues to deliver.
The comprehensive strategy we outlined
in our message to shareholders seven years
ago continues to inspire us as we transform
Ford into an exciting, viable company
delivering profitable growth for all.
Guided by our plan, we are working together to serve all
markets with a full family of vehicles small, medium and
large; cars, utilities and trucks each with the best quality,
fuel efficiency, safety, smart design and value.
In 2013, we achieved one of the best years in the history of
our 111-year-old company, driven by our highest Automotive
pre-tax profit in more than a decade and continued solid
profit from Ford Credit.
Our strong product lineup led to record full-year profits
in North America. Asia Pacific Africa also achieved record
profits as we continue to grow aggressively with an
expanding portfolio of global products. South America
continues to execute its strategy of expanding the product
line-up, and despite the impact of unfavorable external
factors we delivered an about breakeven result in 2013.
Europe continues to implement its transformation plan,
achieving lower losses for 2013 compared with 2012 despite
higher restructuring costs and lower industry volume.
While we celebrate our strong performance in 2013,
we are even more excited by the fact that we have only
just begun to see the full potential of our One Ford plan.
2014 represents the next major step in our plan.
Great Products
We will introduce the most vehicles in a single year in our
history in 2014, with Ford and Lincoln launching 23 new or
significantly refreshed vehicles to customers around the
world to help us build on our strong sales momentum.
In 2013, Ford was Americas best-selling vehicle brand for
the fourth consecutive year, and Ford F-Series continued
as the countrys best-selling truck for the 37th year in a
row and best-selling vehicle for the 32nd consecutive year.
Ford had the largest U.S. market share point gain of
any automaker in 2013. Our business is undergoing
unprecedented growth in China, where our sales
increased nearly 50 percent and set a new record.
We also achieved market share gains in South America
and Asia Pacific Africa, as well as higher retail sales share
in Europe compared with 2012.
Our global sales increased 12 percent in 2013 compared with
2012, as customers took delivery of more than 6 million new
Ford and Lincoln vehicles. Our strong global performance
Going Further to Deliver Profitable Growth for All
We expect 2014 to be another solid year for Ford Motor
Company and a critical building block as we invest around
the world for profitable growth beyond 2014. As a result of
our record number of new product launches, we expect
North American pre-tax profit to be lower in 2014 than
in 2013. The payoff will be higher volume and revenue
opportunities into 2015 and beyond.
Results in 2014 for South America are expected to be about
the same as in 2013 at about breakeven. In Europe, we expect
results to improve compared with 2013 as we continue the
successful implementation of our transformation plan to
achieve profitability in the region in 2015.
Our investments in growth in Asia Pacific during the last
several years helped us to achieve record market share
and profits in 2013. We will continue to execute our growth
strategy for the region in 2014, and expect pre-tax profit
to be about the same as in 2013.
Overall, total company pre-tax profit, excluding special
items, is projected at .7 billion to .8 billion.
Our One Ford plan is driving solid results and profitable
growth for all, and we are confident it will continue to
do so in the future.
Thank you for your support of our efforts.

